Read
Write
Execute


In Linux, every file and directory has a set of permissions that control who can read, write, or execute it. These permissions are often displayed in symbolic format, such as:

rwxrwxrwx
This format is split into three groups:

Section   Applies To	Example
First 3	  Owner	        rwx
Next 3	  Group	        rwx
Last 3	  Others	rwx

Each permission has a numeric value:

Permission	Value
Read (r)	4
Write (w)	2
Execute (x)	1
To calculate the numeric value, we add the values together for each group.

Example: rwxrwxrwx
Break it down:

Group	Permissions	Calculation	Value
Owner	rwx	        4 + 2 + 1	7
Group	rwx	        4 + 2 + 1	7
Others	rwx	        4 + 2 + 1	7

So:

rwxrwxrwx = 777
More Common Examples
Symbolic	Numeric	Meaning
rwxr-xr-x	755	Owner can do everything, others can read and execute
rw-r--r--	644	Owner can read/write, others can only read
rwx------	700	Only the owner has access

important root directories:

/etc
/var
/root
/tmp





Provided that we know usernames and passwords for a user on your current system and a user on the remote system. For example, let's copy an example file from our machine to a remote machine, which I have neatly laid out in the table below:

Variable	Value
The IP address of the remote system 	192.168.1.30
User on the remote system	ubuntu
Name of the file on the local system	important.txt
Name that we wish to store the file as on the remote system	transferred.txt
With this information, let's craft our scp command (remembering that the format of SCP is just SOURCE and DESTINATION)

scp important.txt ubuntu@192.168.1.30:/home/ubuntu/transferred.txt

And now let's reverse this and layout the syntax for using scp to copy a file from a remote computer that we're not logged into 

Variable	Value
IP address of the remote system	192.168.1.30
User on the remote system	ubuntu
Name of the file on the remote system	documents.txt
Name that we wish to store the file as on our system	notes.txt
The command will now look like the following: scp ubuntu@192.168.1.30:/home/ubuntu/documents.txt notes.txt 

Here we're running echo "Hi THM" , where we expect the output to be returned to us like it is at the start. But after adding the & operator to the command, 
we're instead just given the ID of the echo process 
rather than the actual output -- as it is running in the background.


foreground:what we can see run
background: what is running in the background




A crontab is simply a special file with formatting that is recognised by the cron process to execute each line step-by-step. Crontabs require 6 specific values:

Value	Description
MIN	What minute to execute at
HOUR	What hour to execute at
DOM	What day of the month to execute at
MON	What month of the year to execute at
DOW	What day of the week to execute at
CMD	The actual command that will be executed.

Let's use the example of backing up files. You may wish to backup "cmnatic"'s  "Documents" every 12 hours. We would use the following formatting: 

0 */12 * * * cp -R /home/cmnatic/Documents /var/backups/

An interesting feature of crontabs is that these also support the wildcard or asterisk (*). If we do not wish to provide a value for that specific field, i.e. we don't care what month, day, or year it is executed -- only that it is executed every 12 hours, we simply just place an asterisk.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- An Apache2 web server
-Logs for the fail2ban service, which is used to monitor attempted brute forces, for example
-The UFW service which is used as a firewall