The file system used in modern versions of  Windows  is the New Technology File System or simply  NTFS (opens in new tab).

Before NTFS, there was  FAT16/FAT32 (File Allocation Table) and HPFS (High Performance File System). 
You still see FAT partitions in use today. For example, you typically see FAT partitions in USB devices, MicroSD cards, etc.  but traditionally not on personal Windows computers/laptops or Windows servers.

Another feature of NTFS is Alternate Data Streams ( ADS ).

Alternate Data Streams  (ADS) is a file attribute specific to Windows  NTFS  (New Technology File System).

Every file has at least one data stream ( $DATA ), and ADS allows files to contain more than one stream of data.
From a security perspective, malware writers have used ADS to hide data.

The System32 folder holds the important files that are critical for the operating system.


users:
Another way to access this information, and then some, is using Local User and Group Management. 

Right-click on the Start Menu and click Run. Type lusrmgr.msc. See below


UAC: User Account Control

Lesson 2:
System configuration : msconfig -> main purpose is to help diagnose startup issues.
-Windows servers handle startup applications differently than windows client servers. 
-only reliable way to view user-level application startups is through shell:startup  (writing this in run ofc)
- In tools tab inside msconfig we can launch a tool by clicking on it and then the launch button or with the cmd.
- view advanced system settings-> change perfomance settings, startup and recovery which creates a crash dump file for whenever it faces a critical error such as blue screen so analyst can understand what went wrong.

Lesson 3:
- system information: msinfo32
-The  information in System Summary is divided into three sections:
Hardware Resources
Components
Software Environment  
  * enviroment variables

Lesson 4:
- Resource Monitor: resmon
- In the Overview tab, Resmon has four sections:

CPU
Disk
Network
Memory

Lesson 5:
- Per Microsoft, "Windows Firewall offers three firewall profiles: domain, private and public".

Domain - The domain profile applies to networks where the host system can authenticate to a domain controller. 
Private - The private profile is a user-assigned profile and is used to designate private or home networks.
Public - The default profile is the public profile, used to designate public networks such as Wi-Fi hotspots at coffee shops, airports, and other locations.
